W-16560050-AsyncAPI-Avro-support-CP (#204)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-asyncapi-avro-support.adoc

= Implementing and Validating Avro Schemas in APIkit for AsyncAPI Module
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

APIkit for AsyncAPI supports Avro, a data serialization system that helps you define the format for specifying the structure and encoding of messages. This module shows you the structure of messages in the design phase. APIkit for AsyncAPI also supports xref:studio::datasense-concept.adoc[DataSense] of messages with Avro schema.

== Schema Definitions

The Avro spec defines its format by giving the value of `schemaFormat` as `application/vnd.apache.avro`.

The Avro spec can describe the schema inline:

----

>  schemas:

Reviewer: Please use this instead
```
    publish:
      summary: inform details about person
      operationId: lightMeasured
      message:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        payload:
          name: lightMeasured
          type: record
          fields:
            - name: lumens
              type: int
              example: 134
            - name: sentAt
              type: string
              logicalType: timestamp-millis
              default: 10
              example: 1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z

```

Author: OK! Thanks!

= Implementing and Validating Avro Schemas in APIkit for AsyncAPI Module
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

APIkit for AsyncAPI supports Avro, a data serialization system that helps you define the format for specifying the structure and encoding of messages. This module shows you the structure of messages in the design phase. APIkit for AsyncAPI also supports xref:studio::datasense-concept.adoc[DataSense] of messages with Avro schema.

== Schema Definitions

The Avro spec defines its format by giving the value of `schemaFormat` as `application/vnd.apache.avro`.

The Avro spec can describe the schema inline:

----
publish:
  summary: inform details about person
  operationId: lightMeasured
  message:
    schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
    payload:
      name: lightMeasured
      type: record
      fields:
        - name: lumens
          type: int
          example: 134
        - name: sentAt
          type: string
          logicalType: timestamp-millis

>           default: 10

Reviewer: sorry, remove this `default`

Author: Please, remember that you can add a suggestion and edit the doc yourself. 
Once done, I can commit to your suggestion.
Thanks!

          example: 1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z
----

The Avro spec can also refer to an external document that describes the schema in the Avro format:

----
channels:
 smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.event.{streetlightId}.monitor:
   publish:
     message:
       schemaFormat: application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0
       payload:

>          $ref: lumens.avsc'

Reviewer: sorry, another change. Just learned how schema fragments published on exchange are referred. So modify this line as 
`$ref: /exchange_modules/83589b9b-6630-4c28-985d-174ee9172661/lumenschema/1.0.0/lumens.json'`

Author: Please, remember that you can add a suggestion and edit the doc yourself.
Once done, I can commit to your suggestion.
Thanks!

> The Avro spec can describe the schema inline:
> 
> ----
> publish:
>   summary: inform details about person
>   operationId: lightMeasured
>   message:
>     schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
>     payload:
>       name: lightMeasured
>       type: record
>       fields:
>         - name: lumens
>           type: int
>           example: 134
>         - name: sentAt
>           type: string
>           logicalType: timestamp-millis
>           10
>           example: 1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z
> ----
> 
> The Avro spec can also refer to an external document that describes the schema in the Avro format:
> 
> ----
> channels:
>  smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.event.{streetlightId}.monitor:
>    publish:
>      message:
>        schemaFormat: application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0
>        payload:
>          $ref: /exchange_modules/83589b9b-6630-4c28-985d-174ee9172661/lumenschema/1.0.0/lumens.json'
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Avro spec supports describing the schema inline or referencing an external document that describes the schema in the Avro format:

* Inline definition
+
----
publish:
  summary: inform details about person
  operationId: lightMeasured
  message:
    schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
    payload:
      name: lightMeasured
      type: record
      fields:
        - name: lumens
          type: int
          example: 134
        - name: sentAt
          type: string
          logicalType: timestamp-millis
          10
          example: 1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z
----

* Reference to an external definition
+
----
channels:
 smartylighting.streetlights.1.0.event.{streetlightId}.monitor:
   publish:
     message:
       schemaFormat: application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0
       payload:
         $ref: /exchange_modules/83589b9b-6630-4c28-985d-174ee9172661/lumenschema/1.0.0/lumens.json'
----
```

Optional: Suggestion to reduce wording and try to show better that these are two ways of defining the spec. If you apply this suggestion, please confirm in a local build that the bulleted list renders as intended.

> The `lumens.avsc` file provides the specification in the Avro schema.

Reviewer: Please change as `lumens.json`
Exchange expects file extension to be json

Author: Please, remember that you can add a suggestion and edit the doc yourself.
Once done, I can commit to your suggestion.
Thanks!
